To run the project, run proj.

Otherwise, use the following commands in order:

rm proj, 
make clean, 
make, 
./proj

–--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This project is a GUI that can be used to apply filters to .tga image files. To use it, type the filename of the .tga file to be modified into the 'Input File' field. Then type the filename of the .tga file to be generated. If the same name is chosen as the input file, the original file will be modified. To apply a filter, click one of the buttons. Effects are: color invert, blur, flip horizontally, flip vertically, make greyscale, rotate left, rotate right, and edge detect. The resulting file will be automatically created. If an invalid input filename is chosen, the program will close.


The GUI is used as a simple way to access the methods of an image object. The image object consists of a two-dimensional vector of pixels. It has a method for each filter that can be applied to it. An image object is generated by using a stream to read the binary .tga file. The data for each pixel is stored as a pixel object (a nested class inside the image object).

The invert method subtracts the current values of the blue, green, and red fields of each pixel from 255 (the maximum value of each color). In this way, the overall color of the pixel is inverted. When this is applied to all pixels, the image file they compose is inverted.

The flipX and flipY methods flip the image horizontally and vertically. First, a copy of the original array is created for reference. The values stored in the original array then become copies of the pixels stored opposite them on the array. They copy the pixels stored in the array copy.

The blur method performs weighted averages on the pixels immediately adjacent to and including the pixel to have its color changed. It does this for each pixel. By taking the average values of the pixels next to it, the changed pixel participates in the blur (changing to become more similar) of the image. This method also utilizes a backup array, as pixels should not reference pixels that have already been modified.

The greyscale method is used to remove color from the image. It does so by assigning the same value to blue, green, and red. This results in a pixel that is black, grey, or white. Luminance ranges from 0 to 1, so determining the luminance and multiplying it by 255 gives the value to assign to each color, in order to give the correct relative whiteness of each pixel in the image.

The rotate right method is similar to the flipX and flipY methods, in that is assigns pixels in the image array to pixels in a backup array. In this case, pixels are copied from a different dimension of the array, rather than staying in the same one. The actual implementation describes it better than words do.

Edgedetect is used to determine changes in luminance. The method determines the difference in luminance between the upper-left/lower-right and upper-right/lower-left corners. The greater the changes in luminance, the brighter the resulting pixel in the output image.
